README.md, before:

# HA Entity Vault

HA Entity Vault is a self-hosted standalone app for pulling Home Assistant entities on demand, browsing/filtering them, and exporting filtered views as JSON/CSV.

- Stack: Python 3.12, FastAPI, SQLModel + SQLite, Jinja2, httpx, Alembic.
- Build/task runner: npm (Node 20+).
- Runtime: Python/FastAPI.
- Data persistence: local `./data` by default (configurable via `HEV_DATA_DIR`).
- UI name is configurable via `APP_NAME`, so repo/product naming is easy to change later.

## Documentation Map
- [docs/getting-started.md](docs/getting-started.md) - clone-to-first-sync quickstart.
- [docs/deployment/docker.md](docs/deployment/docker.md) - Docker deployment and day-2 operations.
- [docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md](docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md) - Linux auto-test runner browser runtime contract.
- [docs/configuration.md](docs/configuration.md) - canonical environment variable and precedence reference.
- [docs/api-reference.md](docs/api-reference.md) - stable/public HTTP routes and API navigation.

## Install and Run
For a concise onboarding path, see [docs/getting-started.md](docs/getting-started.md).

### Path A: Local Runtime (npm + Python)
Prerequisites:
- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- Python 3.12+

From repo root:

```bash
npm ci
npm run run
curl -fsS http://localhost:8000/healthz
```

Then open `http://localhost:8000`.

If your default `python3` is not 3.12+, set `PYTHON` explicitly:

```bash
PYTHON=python3.12 npm run run
```

### Path B: Docker Compose (Recommended Deployment Path)
First-time Docker user? Follow [docs/getting-started.md](docs/getting-started.md#option-b-docker-quickstart) for clone-to-running instructions.

For deployment operations and troubleshooting, use [docs/deployment/docker.md](docs/deployment/docker.md).

Prerequisites:
- Docker 24+
- Docker Compose plugin v2.20+

From repo root:

```bash
cp .env.docker.example .env
# update SESSION_SECRET in .env before first deployment
docker compose up -d --build
curl -fsS http://localhost:23010/healthz
```

Then open `http://localhost:23010`.

If you want the previous Docker host-port behavior, set `HEV_HOST_PORT=8000` in `.env` before running Compose.

SQLite data persists in the named Docker volume `hev_data`.

Optional Postgres overlay (instead of SQLite):

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.postgres.yml up -d --build
```

Postgres overlay data persists in the named Docker volume `hev_pg_data`.

## First Use Workflow (Core)
1. Open `/settings`, add a profile (name, base URL, token), and save.
2. Click `Test Connection` for that profile.
3. Open `/entities`, then click `Sync Now`.
4. Apply filters/search, inspect entity details, and export via JSON/CSV.
5. Optional: run `Run Suggestions Check` and automation suggestions workflows.

## Release Notes
See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for current and historical release notes.

## MVP Features
- Multiple Home Assistant profiles.
- Settings per profile:
  - Base URL
  - Long-lived access token
  - Optional token env var override name (`token_env_var`, default `HA_TOKEN`)
  - Verify TLS toggle
  - Request timeout seconds
- Test connection (`GET /api/config`) with actionable status.
- Sync now (`GET /api/states`) and store entity snapshots.
- Registry enrichment during sync (best effort):
  - entity registry
  - device registry
  - area registry
  - label registry
  - floor registry
- Entity table with:
  - Search (`entity_id`, friendly name, area/location, labels)
  - Filters (domain/state/changed recently)
  - Server-side pagination
- Entity detail page with enriched metadata plus prettified attributes/context JSON.
- Export filtered results as JSON or CSV (includes `pulled_at` and profile context).
- Health endpoint: `GET /healthz`.
- Structured JSON logs with request IDs and sync timing/count fields.

## Data Model (Snapshot Approach)
MVP uses immutable snapshot runs:

1. `profiles`
2. `sync_runs`
3. `entity_snapshots`

Each sync creates one `sync_runs` row and N `entity_snapshots` rows linked by `sync_run_id`, preserving point-in-time views for future diffing/history features.

## Build and Quality Commands
```bash
npm run bootstrap      # create/update .venv and install requirements-dev.txt
npm run build          # full quality gate: lint + typecheck + tests
npm run lint
npm run typecheck
npm run test
npm run format
npm run db:migrate
npm run run
npm run clean
```

## Make Compatibility Targets
`make` targets are still available and delegate to npm scripts:

```bash
make install
make dev-install
make build
make lint
make typecheck
make test
make format
make run
make alembic-upgrade
make clean
```

## Configuration
Use [docs/configuration.md](docs/configuration.md) as the canonical environment and precedence reference.
Template files for local and Docker runs:
- `.env.example`
- `.env.docker.example`

## Update Checker
- App-level update settings and status live on `GET /config`.
- Source of truth is GitHub commit head for configured `{owner}/{repo}@{branch}`.
- Auto-check runs only when `/config` loads and the configured interval has elapsed.
- Manual checks run via `POST /config/check-updates`.
- Update banner dismissal is deployment-scoped (DB-backed) and reappears automatically when a newer commit is detected.
- If local SHA cannot be resolved, status becomes `unknown_local_sha`. Set `HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA` for deterministic deployment version tracking.
- Deployment metadata endpoints:
  - `GET /version`
  - `GET /update-status`

## Automated Self-Update (Docker + systemd)
- Host-side manager script: `scripts/update-manager.sh`.
- systemd templates: `deploy/systemd/ha-entity-vault-update.service` and `deploy/systemd/ha-entity-vault-update.timer`.
- Default schedule gate: daily at `04:00` local time via `.env` (`AUTO_UPDATE_SCHEDULE`).
- Safety checks include Docker daemon reachability, git origin/branch checks, container health, disk headroom, and SQLite volume/db validation.
- Deploy is health-gated with automatic rollback to `ha-entity-vault:last-known-good`.
- Post-deploy crash loops (default: 3 restarts in 10 minutes) trigger rollback and pause updates until manual resume.
- Structured logs are written to `/var/log/ha-entity-vault-update.log`.
- Full operational steps: [docs/deployment/docker.md](docs/deployment/docker.md).

## Security Notes
- Home Assistant tokens can be stored in SQLite for convenience.
- SQLite token storage is plaintext at rest by default. Use encrypted host storage and strict host permissions.
- Prefer environment variable overrides (`token_env_var`) where practical.
- Tokens are never logged by the app.
- CSRF protection is enabled for state-changing form POSTs via session-bound token.
- Rate limiting is not implemented in MVP (tracked in roadmap).

## HA API Integration (MVP)
- `GET /api/config` for connection test/version discovery.
- `GET /api/states` for on-demand full entity pull.
- `WS /api/websocket` for registry enrichment (`entity/device/area/label/floor` lists).
- Auth: `Authorization: Bearer <token>`.
- Base URLs are normalized to avoid trailing slash issues.
- TLS verify can be disabled for self-signed LAN deployments (`verify_tls=false`).

## Entity Suggestions Policy
- Candidate scope is intentionally limited to actionable domains: `sensor`, `binary_sensor`, `lock`.
- `event` entities are excluded from suggestion runs.
- Missing area is a blocker only when at least one candidate in the run has area/device enrichment.
- If a run has no area/device enrichment at all, missing area is downgraded to review warning for that run.
- If enrichment is unavailable, verify Home Assistant WebSocket/registry access and rerun suggestions after connectivity or permission fixes.
- Existing historical suggestion runs are not backfilled when policy changes; run a new suggestions check to apply current scoring logic.
- Missing details workflow supports direct HA registry updates for area, friendly name, sensor/binary-sensor `device_class`, and labels.
- Workflow writes require an HA admin-capable token because registry update commands are admin-only.
- Use workflow queue for batched edits, then run one batch recheck (`sync + suggestions`) to verify updated statuses.
- Manual-only issues remain visible with guidance and are not auto-editable in the workflow.

## API Reference
- Generated OpenAPI docs: `GET /docs`
- Curated stable/public route reference: [docs/api-reference.md](docs/api-reference.md)

## Quality and CI
GitHub Actions pipeline (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) runs:
- `npm run docs:check` (markdown lint + link checks)
- `npm run build` (lint, typecheck, tests)

Scheduled smoke workflow (`.github/workflows/smoke-autotest.yml`) runs daily:
- Builds and starts the app via Docker Compose.
- Runs the baked Playwright runner preflight.
- Executes rendered `/config` timestamp validation in required browser mode.

Optional helper for GitHub main branch protection:
- `scripts/github/configure-main-protection.sh`
- Configures required check: `build` (plus squash-only merge policy)

Browser runtime contract for external commit-level rendered UI checks:
- `docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md`
- `deploy/autotest/`
- `scripts/harness/run-config-timestamp-check.sh`

## Testing
```bash
npm run test
```

## Project Structure
- `app/main.py` - FastAPI app, routes, middleware, CSRF/session, exports.
- `app/ha_client.py` - Home Assistant API client wrapper.
- `app/models.py` - SQLModel entities.
- `app/db.py` - engine/session helpers + migration startup hook.
- `Dockerfile` - production-oriented image build definition.
- `docker-compose.yml` - default Docker deployment (SQLite).
- `docker-compose.postgres.yml` - optional Postgres overlay for Docker deployments.
- `scripts/update-manager.sh` - host-side Docker Compose self-update manager with rollback and backup automation.
- `deploy/systemd/` - systemd service/timer templates for scheduled auto-updates.
- `docs/getting-started.md` - 10-minute install, run, and first-use guide.
- `docs/configuration.md` - canonical environment and precedence reference.
- `docs/api-reference.md` - stable/public route and API navigation guide.
- `docs/deployment/docker.md` - Docker operations and deployment guide.
- `docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md` - Linux runner browser runtime and `/config` timestamp check contract.
- `deploy/autotest/` - pinned Playwright/Chromium auto-test runner assets.
- `app/templates/` - server-rendered HTML views.
- `app/static/` - CSS.
- `migrations/` - Alembic env + versions.
- `tests/` - unit and API tests.
- `scripts/npm/` - npm-to-Python bootstrap and execution helpers.
- `scripts/harness/` - external harness wrapper commands.
- `scripts/github/` - repository administration helpers.

## Roadmap / TODO

### A) LLM-Assisted Automation and Naming Suggestions
- [ ] Provider abstraction for local and remote LLMs.
  - Notes: support Ollama/LM Studio OpenAI-compatible endpoint plus remote providers with configurable model/base URL/API key/timeout.
- [ ] Safety-first proposal workflow (no auto-apply).
  - Notes: structured JSON proposals (versioned schema), diff preview, explicit user confirmation.
- [ ] Execution pipeline with dry run / apply / rollback.
  - Notes: persist proposal lifecycle state and rollback plan per change set.
- [ ] Audit log for proposals and approvals.
  - Notes: immutable audit events with actor/timestamp/result.
- [ ] RAG-style context assembly.
  - Notes: use entity snapshots first; later include automation YAML/config and dependency references.
- [ ] Constraints to protect automation-linked entities.
  - Notes: block unsafe renames unless references are updated in same proposal.
- [ ] Proposal quality gates.
  - Notes: rule engine (naming lint/reserved prefixes/uniqueness) and optional simulated trigger-condition evaluation.

### B) Naming Conventions Assistant
- [ ] Configurable naming lint profiles.
  - Notes: recommend `domain.object_location_purpose`, lowercase, underscores, no spaces.
- [ ] Duplicate and ambiguity detection.
  - Notes: flag near-collisions and missing location/area hints.
- [ ] Rename plan generator.
  - Notes: produce coordinated updates for `entity_id`, `friendly_name`, and linked references when automation/script/scene data exists.

### C) Push Updates Back to Home Assistant
- [ ] Home Assistant WebSocket API integration.
  - Notes: entity registry operations and supported automation reads/updates.
- [ ] API-first apply workflow.
  - Notes: apply through HA-supported APIs only; otherwise generate manual YAML diffs/instructions.
- [ ] Apply Changes screen.
  - Notes: queued changes, per-change toggles, confirmation gates, rollback preview.

### D) Additional Ideas
- [ ] Entity registry/device/area enrichment.
  - Notes: ingest and link `entity_registry`, `device_registry`, `area_registry` for richer topology.
- [ ] Drift detection and snapshot diffing.
  - Notes: identify new/removed entities, attribute changes, state flapping.
- [ ] Unhealthy entity diagnostics.
  - Notes: detect unavailable frequency, stale updates, and anomalous attribute patterns.
- [ ] Dependency graph view.
  - Notes: map automations/scripts/dashboards to entities as source data expands.
- [ ] Scheduled sync and webhook triggers.
  - Notes: cron-like scheduler and external webhook trigger with shared secret.
- [ ] Backup/export bundle.
  - Notes: one-click zip of snapshots, lint report, proposals, audit log for support/debug handoff.
- [ ] Multi-instance dashboard.
  - Notes: aggregate profile health and drift summary in one view.
- [ ] Read-only guest mode.
  - Notes: scoped access profile for view/export without settings mutation.
- [ ] Attribute-key search.
  - Notes: index and query by nested attribute keys/values.

## Known MVP Limitations
- No background queue; sync is user-triggered request path.
- No built-in secret encryption at rest.
- No built-in rate limiting.
- Registry enrichment is best effort and depends on the connected HA version.
- Suggestion runs use an in-process worker queue; run one app replica unless queue orchestration is redesigned.

## License
MIT. See `LICENSE`.

Commit message:

docs: recommend runtime HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA injection

README.md, after:

# HA Entity Vault

HA Entity Vault is a self-hosted standalone app for pulling Home Assistant entities on demand, browsing/filtering them, and exporting filtered views as JSON/CSV.

- Stack: Python 3.12, FastAPI, SQLModel + SQLite, Jinja2, httpx, Alembic.
- Build/task runner: npm (Node 20+).
- Runtime: Python/FastAPI.
- Data persistence: local `./data` by default (configurable via `HEV_DATA_DIR`).
- UI name is configurable via `APP_NAME`, so repo/product naming is easy to change later.

## Documentation Map
- [docs/getting-started.md](docs/getting-started.md) - clone-to-first-sync quickstart.
- [docs/deployment/docker.md](docs/deployment/docker.md) - Docker deployment and day-2 operations.
- [docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md](docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md) - Linux auto-test runner browser runtime contract.
- [docs/configuration.md](docs/configuration.md) - canonical environment variable and precedence reference.
- [docs/api-reference.md](docs/api-reference.md) - stable/public HTTP routes and API navigation.

## Install and Run
For a concise onboarding path, see [docs/getting-started.md](docs/getting-started.md).

### Path A: Local Runtime (npm + Python)
Prerequisites:
- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+
- Python 3.12+

From repo root:

```bash
npm ci
npm run run
curl -fsS http://localhost:8000/healthz
```

Then open `http://localhost:8000`.

If your default `python3` is not 3.12+, set `PYTHON` explicitly:

```bash
PYTHON=python3.12 npm run run
```

### Path B: Docker Compose (Recommended Deployment Path)
First-time Docker user? Follow [docs/getting-started.md](docs/getting-started.md#option-b-docker-quickstart) for clone-to-running instructions.

For deployment operations and troubleshooting, use [docs/deployment/docker.md](docs/deployment/docker.md).

Prerequisites:
- Docker 24+
- Docker Compose plugin v2.20+

From repo root:

```bash
cp .env.docker.example .env
# update SESSION_SECRET in .env before first deployment
docker compose up -d --build
curl -fsS http://localhost:23010/healthz
```

Then open `http://localhost:23010`.

Recommended for deploy/update (keeps update-checker local SHA in sync after pulls):

```bash
HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA=$(git rev-parse HEAD) docker compose up -d --build --force-recreate
```

Note: Docker Compose loads `.env`, and teams commonly keep/commit that file locally. If `HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA` is pinned in `.env`, the UI `Installed Commit` can stay old after `git pull` unless you also update `.env` and rebuild the image.

If you previously pinned `HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA` in `.env`, remove it (or set it empty), then rebuild/recreate:

```bash
sed -i '/^HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA=/d' .env
HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA=$(git rev-parse HEAD) docker compose up -d --build --force-recreate
```

If you want the previous Docker host-port behavior, set `HEV_HOST_PORT=8000` in `.env` before running Compose.

SQLite data persists in the named Docker volume `hev_data`.

Optional Postgres overlay (instead of SQLite):

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.postgres.yml up -d --build
```

Postgres overlay data persists in the named Docker volume `hev_pg_data`.

## First Use Workflow (Core)
1. Open `/settings`, add a profile (name, base URL, token), and save.
2. Click `Test Connection` for that profile.
3. Open `/entities`, then click `Sync Now`.
4. Apply filters/search, inspect entity details, and export via JSON/CSV.
5. Optional: run `Run Suggestions Check` and automation suggestions workflows.

## Release Notes
See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for current and historical release notes.

## MVP Features
- Multiple Home Assistant profiles.
- Settings per profile:
  - Base URL
  - Long-lived access token
  - Optional token env var override name (`token_env_var`, default `HA_TOKEN`)
  - Verify TLS toggle
  - Request timeout seconds
- Test connection (`GET /api/config`) with actionable status.
- Sync now (`GET /api/states`) and store entity snapshots.
- Registry enrichment during sync (best effort):
  - entity registry
  - device registry
  - area registry
  - label registry
  - floor registry
- Entity table with:
  - Search (`entity_id`, friendly name, area/location, labels)
  - Filters (domain/state/changed recently)
  - Server-side pagination
- Entity detail page with enriched metadata plus prettified attributes/context JSON.
- Export filtered results as JSON or CSV (includes `pulled_at` and profile context).
- Health endpoint: `GET /healthz`.
- Structured JSON logs with request IDs and sync timing/count fields.

## Data Model (Snapshot Approach)
MVP uses immutable snapshot runs:

1. `profiles`
2. `sync_runs`
3. `entity_snapshots`

Each sync creates one `sync_runs` row and N `entity_snapshots` rows linked by `sync_run_id`, preserving point-in-time views for future diffing/history features.

## Build and Quality Commands
```bash
npm run bootstrap      # create/update .venv and install requirements-dev.txt
npm run build          # full quality gate: lint + typecheck + tests
npm run lint
npm run typecheck
npm run test
npm run format
npm run db:migrate
npm run run
npm run clean
```

## Make Compatibility Targets
`make` targets are still available and delegate to npm scripts:

```bash
make install
make dev-install
make build
make lint
make typecheck
make test
make format
make run
make alembic-upgrade
make clean
```

## Configuration
Use [docs/configuration.md](docs/configuration.md) as the canonical environment and precedence reference.
Template files for local and Docker runs:
- `.env.example`
- `.env.docker.example`

## Update Checker
- App-level update settings and status live on `GET /config`.
- Source of truth is GitHub commit head for configured `{owner}/{repo}@{branch}`.
- Auto-check runs only when `/config` loads and the configured interval has elapsed.
- Manual checks run via `POST /config/check-updates`.
- Update banner dismissal is deployment-scoped (DB-backed) and reappears automatically when a newer commit is detected.
- If local SHA cannot be resolved, status becomes `unknown_local_sha`. Recommended for local/self-host deploys: runtime inject `HEV_BUILD_COMMIT_SHA=$(git rev-parse HEAD)` when running Compose. You may pin it in `.env` for deterministic builds, but you must update it on each deploy.
- Deployment metadata endpoints:
  - `GET /version`
  - `GET /update-status`

## Automated Self-Update (Docker + systemd)
- Host-side manager script: `scripts/update-manager.sh`.
- systemd templates: `deploy/systemd/ha-entity-vault-update.service` and `deploy/systemd/ha-entity-vault-update.timer`.
- Default schedule gate: daily at `04:00` local time via `.env` (`AUTO_UPDATE_SCHEDULE`).
- Safety checks include Docker daemon reachability, git origin/branch checks, container health, disk headroom, and SQLite volume/db validation.
- Deploy is health-gated with automatic rollback to `ha-entity-vault:last-known-good`.
- Post-deploy crash loops (default: 3 restarts in 10 minutes) trigger rollback and pause updates until manual resume.
- Structured logs are written to `/var/log/ha-entity-vault-update.log`.
- Full operational steps: [docs/deployment/docker.md](docs/deployment/docker.md).

## Security Notes
- Home Assistant tokens can be stored in SQLite for convenience.
- SQLite token storage is plaintext at rest by default. Use encrypted host storage and strict host permissions.
- Prefer environment variable overrides (`token_env_var`) where practical.
- Tokens are never logged by the app.
- CSRF protection is enabled for state-changing form POSTs via session-bound token.
- Rate limiting is not implemented in MVP (tracked in roadmap).

## HA API Integration (MVP)
- `GET /api/config` for connection test/version discovery.
- `GET /api/states` for on-demand full entity pull.
- `WS /api/websocket` for registry enrichment (`entity/device/area/label/floor` lists).
- Auth: `Authorization: Bearer <token>`.
- Base URLs are normalized to avoid trailing slash issues.
- TLS verify can be disabled for self-signed LAN deployments (`verify_tls=false`).

## Entity Suggestions Policy
- Candidate scope is intentionally limited to actionable domains: `sensor`, `binary_sensor`, `lock`.
- `event` entities are excluded from suggestion runs.
- Missing area is a blocker only when at least one candidate in the run has area/device enrichment.
- If a run has no area/device enrichment at all, missing area is downgraded to review warning for that run.
- If enrichment is unavailable, verify Home Assistant WebSocket/registry access and rerun suggestions after connectivity or permission fixes.
- Existing historical suggestion runs are not backfilled when policy changes; run a new suggestions check to apply current scoring logic.
- Missing details workflow supports direct HA registry updates for area, friendly name, sensor/binary-sensor `device_class`, and labels.
- Workflow writes require an HA admin-capable token because registry update commands are admin-only.
- Use workflow queue for batched edits, then run one batch recheck (`sync + suggestions`) to verify updated statuses.
- Manual-only issues remain visible with guidance and are not auto-editable in the workflow.

## API Reference
- Generated OpenAPI docs: `GET /docs`
- Curated stable/public route reference: [docs/api-reference.md](docs/api-reference.md)

## Quality and CI
GitHub Actions pipeline (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`) runs:
- `npm run docs:check` (markdown lint + link checks)
- `npm run build` (lint, typecheck, tests)

Scheduled smoke workflow (`.github/workflows/smoke-autotest.yml`) runs daily:
- Builds and starts the app via Docker Compose.
- Runs the baked Playwright runner preflight.
- Executes rendered `/config` timestamp validation in required browser mode.

Optional helper for GitHub main branch protection:
- `scripts/github/configure-main-protection.sh`
- Configures required check: `build` (plus squash-only merge policy)

Browser runtime contract for external commit-level rendered UI checks:
- `docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md`
- `deploy/autotest/`
- `scripts/harness/run-config-timestamp-check.sh`

## Testing
```bash
npm run test
```

## Project Structure
- `app/main.py` - FastAPI app, routes, middleware, CSRF/session, exports.
- `app/ha_client.py` - Home Assistant API client wrapper.
- `app/models.py` - SQLModel entities.
- `app/db.py` - engine/session helpers + migration startup hook.
- `Dockerfile` - production-oriented image build definition.
- `docker-compose.yml` - default Docker deployment (SQLite).
- `docker-compose.postgres.yml` - optional Postgres overlay for Docker deployments.
- `scripts/update-manager.sh` - host-side Docker Compose self-update manager with rollback and backup automation.
- `deploy/systemd/` - systemd service/timer templates for scheduled auto-updates.
- `docs/getting-started.md` - 10-minute install, run, and first-use guide.
- `docs/configuration.md` - canonical environment and precedence reference.
- `docs/api-reference.md` - stable/public route and API navigation guide.
- `docs/deployment/docker.md` - Docker operations and deployment guide.
- `docs/deployment/auto-test-runner.md` - Linux runner browser runtime and `/config` timestamp check contract.
- `deploy/autotest/` - pinned Playwright/Chromium auto-test runner assets.
- `app/templates/` - server-rendered HTML views.
- `app/static/` - CSS.
- `migrations/` - Alembic env + versions.
- `tests/` - unit and API tests.
- `scripts/npm/` - npm-to-Python bootstrap and execution helpers.
- `scripts/harness/` - external harness wrapper commands.
- `scripts/github/` - repository administration helpers.

## Roadmap / TODO

### A) LLM-Assisted Automation and Naming Suggestions
- [ ] Provider abstraction for local and remote LLMs.
  - Notes: support Ollama/LM Studio OpenAI-compatible endpoint plus remote providers with configurable model/base URL/API key/timeout.
- [ ] Safety-first proposal workflow (no auto-apply).
  - Notes: structured JSON proposals (versioned schema), diff preview, explicit user confirmation.
- [ ] Execution pipeline with dry run / apply / rollback.
  - Notes: persist proposal lifecycle state and rollback plan per change set.
- [ ] Audit log for proposals and approvals.
  - Notes: immutable audit events with actor/timestamp/result.
- [ ] RAG-style context assembly.
  - Notes: use entity snapshots first; later include automation YAML/config and dependency references.
- [ ] Constraints to protect automation-linked entities.
  - Notes: block unsafe renames unless references are updated in same proposal.
- [ ] Proposal quality gates.
  - Notes: rule engine (naming lint/reserved prefixes/uniqueness) and optional simulated trigger-condition evaluation.

### B) Naming Conventions Assistant
- [ ] Configurable naming lint profiles.
  - Notes: recommend `domain.object_location_purpose`, lowercase, underscores, no spaces.
- [ ] Duplicate and ambiguity detection.
  - Notes: flag near-collisions and missing location/area hints.
- [ ] Rename plan generator.
  - Notes: produce coordinated updates for `entity_id`, `friendly_name`, and linked references when automation/script/scene data exists.

### C) Push Updates Back to Home Assistant
- [ ] Home Assistant WebSocket API integration.
  - Notes: entity registry operations and supported automation reads/updates.
- [ ] API-first apply workflow.
  - Notes: apply through HA-supported APIs only; otherwise generate manual YAML diffs/instructions.
- [ ] Apply Changes screen.
  - Notes: queued changes, per-change toggles, confirmation gates, rollback preview.

### D) Additional Ideas
- [ ] Entity registry/device/area enrichment.
  - Notes: ingest and link `entity_registry`, `device_registry`, `area_registry` for richer topology.
- [ ] Drift detection and snapshot diffing.
  - Notes: identify new/removed entities, attribute changes, state flapping.
- [ ] Unhealthy entity diagnostics.
  - Notes: detect unavailable frequency, stale updates, and anomalous attribute patterns.
- [ ] Dependency graph view.
  - Notes: map automations/scripts/dashboards to entities as source data expands.
- [ ] Scheduled sync and webhook triggers.
  - Notes: cron-like scheduler and external webhook trigger with shared secret.
- [ ] Backup/export bundle.
  - Notes: one-click zip of snapshots, lint report, proposals, audit log for support/debug handoff.
- [ ] Multi-instance dashboard.
  - Notes: aggregate profile health and drift summary in one view.
- [ ] Read-only guest mode.
  - Notes: scoped access profile for view/export without settings mutation.
- [ ] Attribute-key search.
  - Notes: index and query by nested attribute keys/values.

## Known MVP Limitations
- No background queue; sync is user-triggered request path.
- No built-in secret encryption at rest.
- No built-in rate limiting.
- Registry enrichment is best effort and depends on the connected HA version.
- Suggestion runs use an in-process worker queue; run one app replica unless queue orchestration is redesigned.

## License
MIT. See `LICENSE`.
